Explore Student Accommodation in University of Chicago
University of Chicago
About the University of Chicago
The University of Chicago is located in Illinois. 64%:36% national and international students are accepted every year by the campus.

Let us answer your curiosity related to securing university dorms:

Does the University of Chicago provide on-campus student rooms? Yes.

What is the best month to secure University of Chicago campus dorms? Mid-October.

What is the University of Chicago dorm allotment priority based on? First come, first served.

Can a student book an advanced University of Chicago (UChicago) accommodation without a university offer letter? No.

The University of Chicago residence halls' average rent is US$7,000/semester. Which generally includes electricity, water, gas, Wi-Fi, maintenance, security, and shared building amenities.

Expect additional costs other than University Of Chicago student housing on-campus rent for services such as: Meals plans (if not available, call 211 to find Food banks nearby for free or lowest prices groceries.), Refundable damage deposit, Bicycle parking / discounted bus pass to campus, Laundry services.

There are 2 types of off-campus housing options available, which are a bit expensive compared to university dorms but offer additional benefits such as flexible contract length, flexible move-in dates, independent social life, and modern amenities:

1. Type 1: Purpose-built off-campus student housing: Avg. prices US$450/month.

Maintained and handled by some private leading student housing providers. Only students can apply for off-campus housing. Early-bird (Advance) student room booking without university offer letter is applicable in many housings with a few T&Cs applied; read carefully before booking. Generally, flexible tenancy has 3, 6, and 12 month-based bookings. Popular University of Chicago (UChicago) housing include Pilsen, West Town, Chicago - 630 N Franklin St, and Wicker Park.


2. Type 2: Private student houses/apartments: Avg. prices US$550/month.

Maintained and handled by individual landlords. Students with their families can book a room. Number of occupants T&C applied. Advance student room booking without a university offer letter is applicable in many housings with a few T&Cs applied; read carefully before booking. Generally, flexible tenancy has weekly, monthly, and semester-based bookings. Recommended private student accommodations near the University of Chicago include Smart River North Studio w/ Gym, Pool, near L stop, Upscale Streeterville Jr 1BR w/ Gym, nr Magnificent Mile, Roomy River West 1BR w/ Rooftop & Gym, steps to Blue Line, and Premium Loop 1BR w/ Gym, Roof Deck, near Millennium Park. However, we suggest checking cancellation and refund policies before booking a room OR speaking with our multilingual student housing experts.

Benefits of Booking University Of Chicago (UChicago) Off-Campus Housing Over On-campus Dorms: 
1. Early bird offer (off-campus student rooms generally give discounts or offers on early booking.)
2. More number of student room types to choose from, unlike university dorms.
3. No offer, no visa, no problem! Easy cancellation process. T&C applied.
4. Avoid expensive last-minute off-campus student room bookings.
5. Stay with your friend or partner despite being enrolled in different universities in the city.
6. More privacy because on-campus accommodations usually have shared facilities and common areas.
7. Off-campus and private lets generally have modern facilities, such as gyms, cinemas, and games rooms.