Hyde park anywhere from 51st to 63rd is great. You should be able to find a nice place for $1300 a month pretty easily, or a livable place for $1000

Are there any websites you'd recommend for my apartment hunt? What would I have to pay for a room in a shared apartment in that area? Can check apartment search websites, for shared rooms looks on Facebook. A shared room should be probably $7-800. 

South Loop is nice if you want to be closer to downtown but still pretty convenient to Hyde Park. Some separation from home and school is good haha.

I’d say East Hyde park near the 6 bus is ideal. 15-20 minute walk from campus, similar ride time to the loop, close to metra station too. On campus shuttle route. Parks for dog. Lots of apartments. We rented a condo — much nicer than the student apartments and was reasonable (back in the day).

We moved from north side back to hyde park / south Kenwood (which many people just call Hyde Park) when our kids were a few years old and have never regretted it. You don't indicate what kind of budget you have, which is obviously key and whether you are looking for a house or appartment. If you can afford it, the nicest (and possibly safest) place to live near campus are between 53rd an 59th street, east all the way to the lake, west to university or Greenwood or maybe Ellis (The part of this area south of 55th is most expensive.) There are lots of great places between 47th and 53rd, but different blocks have decidedly different vibes. Kenwood South of 47th street has areas that are primarily single family homes, but there are are many blocks (especially from approx. 51st to 47th that have decent appartment buildings). 

East of Greenwood or Ellis to Cottage Grove varies greatly block to block and also depending on how far south you go.

Another comment mentions the regents park building (a high rise rental), for example, and there are lots of nice buildings in that general vicinity.

A company called MAC properties owns a significant % of the rental stock in Hyde Park. Negative opinions about them frequently expressed, but I don't know how well-founded these are.

Mac is the most hilariously awful group. I lived in a building that had so many violations, and my unit was noooowhere near up to code. The interior of my apartment was regularly below 50 degrees in the winter. Then they stole my $2500 security deposit. I’ve also never had a pleasant interaction with one of their employees.

Hyde park is a wonderful little community, and the lake access is unparalleled. But it can feel… intimate, living and working in the same “village.”

If you want to be closer to city life and have a bit more distance from work, anywhere on the south or near west side is an easy commute — Bridgeport (more families), pilsen (swings younger), west loop ($$$), Ukrainian village (good mix of all of the above). It really depends on the kind of community and social life you’re looking for.

That said, public transportation links to Hyde park are not great. South loop has a decent bus connection, but from anywhere else you’re looking at a combo of bus and train. Realistically, if you’re living outside of Hyde park you probably want to drive to campus (and deal w the nightmare of parking / walking nearly a mile from parking to work if you can’t get there by 8am)

A lot of Booth students live in South Loop. If you’re going to have a car Lincoln Park is also doable (Lakeshore Drive heading south in the morning isn’t bad)

I really hated living in Hyde park. There wasn’t nearly enough to do, or enough things (restaurants, stores, workout studios, grocery stores) around for me. Plus, I felt extremely extremely unsafe and had several encounters that ultimately led me to move (for reference I’m a 27 y/o woman). I live in Gold Coast and commute now and it’s so, so worth it. If you’re 30, I would recommend doing something similar.

I appreciate the input! Safety is a big factor since my wife will be alone most of the time. How is the commute?

I have lived in various communities in Chicago and I don’t recommend the Gold Coast. It’s not any safer than Hyde Park and it lacks parking. It’s very expensive for the square footage. Also many tourists in the area.

I’m actually looking for a studio in Chicago with a max budget of $1,400/month, including utilities, electricity, and internet. where would you recommend other than Hyde Park?

And if you are ready to venture out lower (66th, in Woodlawn) the prices are far more affordable - far more bang for your buck. Just saying, worth to drive by and see for yourself.

I would stay north of 60th. Regents Park apartments were nice when I lived there a while ago. Not sure if they allow dogs though.