There are a few easy routes to finding an apartment in Hyde Park or any other neighborhood. One option is to search online listing websites for available apartments. Another option is to work with a management company that has many units available, usually in various buildings. You can also choose to work with a broker or listing company, which usually does not own or manage any properties, but works with many management firms and helps connect apartment seekers with options that meet their criteria for location, budget, etc. In Chicago there is no need to pay someone to help you find an apartment—and we would not recommend working with anyone who charges you for this service. The easiest place to begin your search is to use online apartment listing websites to get an idea of the rental prices in the neighborhoods you’re interested in. On these sites, you can narrow your results by applying filters with your preferences such as price range, neighborhood, number of bedrooms, whether it allows pets, etc. They will show apartments from many different management companies, and sometimes from individuals renting out their condominium or house. Whichever route you choose to take, you can find various information and links to resources below. Please note that the University does not endorse or promote any specific company, vendor, or rental agent; the companies mentioned here are offered for informational purposes only. Websites with large databases of available listings: Apartments.com Apartmentguide.com Domu RentCafe StudentSpace Housing Trulia Zillow Zumper Property Management Companies There are two types of property management companies –those that own and manage one or more buildings, and those that manage units or buildings on behalf of other owners. Because management companies usually work with a large number of tenants, they offer services like leasing agents to show you available units, 24-hour emergency service numbers, and so on. The management companies listed here offer a range of options in Hyde Park, Woodlawn, and Kenwood. Please note that the University does not endorse or promote any non-University company, vendor, or rental agent; the third-party companies mentioned here are offered for informational purposes only. Vue53: Vue53 is a university-approved housing option for students, faculty, and staff. One of Hyde Park’s newest apartment communities, Vue53 features studios and one- and two-bedroom apartments, in-unit washers and dryers, and a wide variety of community amenities. Vue53 is located on 53rd street, one of Hyde Park’s main commercial streets, and within walking distance to campus. Cagan Management Group: Cagan Management Group provides property management services for a dozen buildings in Hyde Park, as well as others around the Chicagoland area. Leasing agents will work with renters to identify units that meet your needs, and offer scheduled tours of available units. Note that they do not have an office in Hyde Park, so appointments are necessary, but their website also includes details of available units. Ivy Residences: With 25 properties in the Hyde Park area, ranging from studio to three-bedroom apartments including a number of furnished options, Ivy is one of the larger management companies in the neighborhood. Their website allows you to look at currently-available units by price and number of bedrooms, and you can schedule a video or in-person tour online. Mac Properties: Mac is one of the largest landlords in Hyde Park, with more than 100 buildings, ranging from lake-front high rises and renovated historic properties to walk-up units. Their site shows currently available units with photos and floor plans, costs of lease terms, and building amenities. Leasing agents will work with you to determine which units may meet your needs. Mac will also take you to visit several buildings if you are able to come to Chicago in person. Fernwood Property Management: Fernwood manages a few of the largest apartment buildings throughout Hyde Park, South Loop, and Bronzeville, in buildings that are particularly popular with graduate students. Each of Fernwood’s communities offer a variety of amenities like pools, fitness rooms, and private study space. Kass Management: Kass Management represents apartments throughout the Chicagoland area with over 350 units and 20 buildings in the Hyde Park area alone. You can take a look at their available apartments and schedule on appointment on their website. Peak Properties Management: Peak Properties is a full-service property management company providing housing to dozens of Chicago’s neighborhoods including Hyde Park. Many of their buildings are within short walking distance to the University of Chicago campus. To learn more visit their property management website or explore their available apartments on the Peak Realty Chicago leasing site for assistance. TLC Management: TLC manages more than a dozen buildings in Hyde Park, as well as others throughout the city. Their website shows available units, building amenities, photos and floor plans, and more, with additional information about furnished options. Their staff will be able to discuss with you the range of options that they offer, and their initial application is available online. 3L Living: 3L Living has four buildings throughout Hyde Park. Located near campus and UGo shuttle bus routes, 3L Living offers studios and one bedroom units, with furnished units and community amenities. All utilities and internet services are included in the base rental price. 3L Living offers flexible move-in timing, terms, and online payment options. Novo Properties : Novo manages properties in Hyde Park and South Kenwood, including the Trilogy Apartment Buildings, located conveniently along the campus shuttle and 172 bus routes. Novo offers three bedroom/two bathroom and one bedroom/one bath units with various amenities, located conveniently near campus. Habitat: Habitat manages multiple high rise buildings throughout Chicago, including the East Hyde Park and South Loop neighborhoods. These buildings feature modern apartments with large windows, fully-equipped kitchens, and inviting lobby space. Parker-Holsman: This is a smaller, local management company. Although they manage fewer buildings, you can still submit your criteria through their website to learn more about available units. More openings are typically posted in the summer months. University Residential Properties: The University of Chicago Residential Properties Office manages a small number of apartment units in the Hyde Park area specifically for graduate students, with furnished and unfurnished options. Three of the buildings offer accessible units, and interested students should contact their office directly with information about their specific needs. These units fill up very fast – usually in the spring – so if you are considering this option, you should apply on their website no later than March to put your name on the waiting list. LISTING AGENTS OR REALTORS While you can do your own search for properties listed on online resources, working with a listing agent, or even a realtor (real estate agent), may provide you access to units that are not listed yet. Some of the sites listed above, and all of the major property management companies, have staff who will assist you in identifying which of their listings or properties are a good fit for you, and if you can visit, will show you several units. Realtors typically focus on selling properties, but a few also work with rental units. A listing agent or property management representative can help you with a search for housing based on your criteria. A good agent with past experience of the neighborhood can also keep you away from buildings with a history of problems, or help you negotiate the terms with your future landlord. Be sure to discuss any fees they may charge in advance: in some cases, the renter is responsible for paying any fees, in others, the fees are covered by the landlord. 