University of Chicago Housing | UChicago housing | uhomes.com     Log in  Become Partner  Language 中文  English  繁體中文(中國香港)  繁體中文(中國台灣)  Tiếng Việt  ไทย  日本語  한국어  Español  Deutsch  Französisch  Italienisch   Get in Touch  |  Get in Touch  / Log in Become Partner  English  中文  English  繁體中文(中國香港)  繁體中文(中國台灣)  Tiếng Việt  ไทย  日本語  한국어  Español  Deutsch  Französisch  Italienisch  Show on map uhomesAI  Filter Clear Filter Filter  Home > United States > Chicago Student Accommodation > University of Chicago Student Accommodation Student Housing near University of Chicago 585 properties found Compared to on-campus housing, o ff-campus housing may offer more flexibility in terms of pricing, amenities, and roommates, potentially allowing you to find a better deal. u homes.com offers a wide selection of verified UChicago off-campus housing that caters to your specific living requirements. Browse our University of Chicago housing listings by budget, floor plan, location, amenities, and other preferences to shortlist your ideal housing near University of Chicago . Our consultants are also willing to assist you in finding the perfect Chicago apartments near University of Chicago and answering any questions you may have. Choosing apartments near UChicago through uhomes.com allows you to enjoy a comfortable living experience tailored to your lifestyle. Start your search today and take the first step towards your dream UChicago housing. ! Sort By: Grid List    Shoreland 5454 South Shore Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60615 1.31 mi walk from University of Chicago  19 min  5 min  8 min  25 min Must-Stay List No.1   Verified  Apartment No Service Fee Near school bus 24 hours security pets allowed Double Occupancy(Free) with air-con Walk to school Near bus station Gym Saved 3 times in 30 days  Offers up to US$154 From US$2,230 US$2,226 /month Enquire    NEMA Chicago 1210 South Indiana Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60605 6.20 mi walk from University of Chicago  47 min  15 min  39 min  120 min Must-Stay List No.2   Verified  Apartment No Service Fee In-unit Washer/Dryer Swimming Pool Spa Near bus station Near supermarket Floor-to-ceiling Window Near bus station Walk to school Saved 6 times in 30 days  Offers up to US$153.5 From US$2,552 US$2,548 /month Enquire    Regents Park 5035 South East End Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60615 1.63 mi walk from University of Chicago  25 min  6 min  9 min  31 min  Verified  Apartment No Service Fee Swimming Pool Garden View Sky Lounge pets allowed Gym Elevator Near bus station Walk to school Saved 7 times in 30 days  4.2 (9)  Offers up to US$223.5 From US$1,725 US$1,718 /month Enquire    Windermere House 1642 E. 56th. Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637 0.80 mi from University of Chicago (straight line)  19 min  6 min Must-Stay List No.4   Verified  Apartment No Service Fee 24 hours security Near school bus Near park Near Shopping Center Near bus station Gym Elevator Saved 4 times in 30 days  4.7 (3)  Offers up to US$402.5 From US$2,045 US$2,020 /month Enquire    Arrive Michigan Avenue 1326 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60605 6.16 mi walk from University of Chicago  37 min  15 min  41 min  119 min Must-Stay List No.5   Verified  Apartment No Service Fee Near bus station City View Swimming Pool In-unit Washer/Dryer with air-con Elevator Gym pets allowed Saved 6 times in 30 days  Offers up to US$153.5 From US$2,359 US$2,355 /month Enquire    NEMA(BG) 1210 South Indiana Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60605 6.20 mi walk from University of Chicago  47 min  15 min  39 min  120 min Must-Stay List No.6   Apartment No Service Fee pets allowed Gym Elevator Saved 1 times in 30 days  Offers up to US$153.5 From US$3,258 /month Enquire    Axis Apartments & Lofts 441 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611 8.18 mi walk from University of Chicago  63 min  20 min  52 min  180 min Must-Stay List No.7   Verified  Apartment Walk to school Near bus station Gym Double Occupancy(Free) Saved 2 times in 30 days  Offers up to US$218.5 From US$1,840 /month Enquire    Straits Row 633 South La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605 7.10 mi walk from University of Chicago  48 min  19 min  45 min  137 min  Verified  Apartment No Service Fee Near Subway Gym Swimming Pool Furnished In-unit Washer/Dryer Elevator with air-con Near bus station Saved 8 times in 30 days  5.0 (2)  Exclusive offers up to US$153.5 From US$1,579 US$1,575 /month Enquire    Presidential Towers 555 West Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois 60661 8.15 mi walk from University of Chicago  60 min  17 min  57 min  157 min Must-Stay List No.9   Verified  Apartment No Service Fee 24 hours security Near Subway Walk to school Near bus station with air-con Elevator Saved 5 times in 30 days  4.3 (12)  Offers up to US$403 From US$1,650 US$1,625 /month Enquire    Sentral Michigan Avenue 808 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60605 6.61 mi walk from University of Chicago  46 min  15 min  42 min  128 min Must-Stay List No.10   Verified  Apartment No Service Fee Walk to school pets allowed Swimming Pool Near Subway Near supermarket Near bus station Gym Elevator Saved 3 times in 30 days  Offers up to US$153.5 From US$2,237 US$2,233 /month Enquire    Park Michigan 1212 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60605 6.29 mi walk from University of Chicago  38 min  13 min  40 min  121 min  Apartment No Service Fee Gym Saved 2 times in 30 days  Offers up to US$153.5 From US$1,885 US$1,881 /month Enquire    East Park Tower 5242 South Hyde Park Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois 60615 1.07 mi from University of Chicago (straight line)  22 min  8 min  Verified  Apartment No Service Fee Near park Near bus station pets allowed Gym Elevator Saved 3 times in 30 days  Offers up to US$402.5 From US$1,375 US$1,350 /month Enquire Student Accommodation near University of Chicago University of Chicago Housing  Searching for the perfect off-campus University of Chicago housing? uhomes.com is the best platform. We offer many UChicago house resources in prime locations. Nestled in the vibrant city of Chicago, living in the University of Chicago's off-campus housing has many advantages compared to the University of Chicago's on-campus housing. The Pros of renting apartments near the University of Chicago: 1. More Independence : Living off-campus UChicago housing allows students to enjoy a sense of independence, fostering personal growth and responsibility. 2. Diverse Amenities : Renting Chicago apartments near the University of Chicago often offers a broader range of amenities, catering to students' varied needs and preferences. 3. Immersion in Community : Residing UChicago off-campus housing enables students to fully immerse themselves in the vibrant local community, such as Hyde Park and South Loop , enhancing their overall college experience. At uhomes.com, we understand the importance of convenience and comfort for students when renting UChicago off-campus housing. Our consultants will be dedicated to helping you discover the best apartments near the University of Chicago, tailored to your unique needs. About University of Chicago- Chicago, IL  The University of Chicago is consistently ranked among the United States' top universities. In the 2026 edition of Best Colleges, University of Chicago is ranked No. #6 in National Universities. It's also ranked No. #1 in Best Colleges for Veterans. Nestled in the vibrant Chicago City on the shores of Lake Michigan, this esteemed institution offers an unparalleled educational experience for UChicago students. "Let knowledge grow from more to more, and so be human life enriched" is UChicago's motto . Besides, the University of Chicago is committed to fostering an inclusive campus environment where all members feel valued, respected, and heard. Beyond its renowned academic and research prowess, UChicago's 200-acre campus is a collection of artistic and intellectual wonders. The Smart Museum of Art, the Renaissance Society, the Court Theatre, and the Oriental Institute Museum all grace the university's grounds, providing a rich tapestry of cultural enrichment for students. The university's idyllic setting is further enhanced by its green spaces. The Midway Plaisance seamlessly connects Washington Park and Jackson Park, offering a serene respite from the bustling city. With convenient rail connections, Chicago landmarks and tourist attractions are easy to reach and explore. While the legendary lakefront may command high rents, the University of Chicago neighbourhoods, such as Hyde Park and Woodlawn, offer affordable apartments near UChicago; uhomes.com offers substantial affordable apartments near the University of Chicago, allowing students to immerse themselves in the vibrant local community. Best University of Chicago Housing  Finding the perfect University of Chicago off-campus housing is seamless with uhomes.com. Whether searching for budget-friendly UChicago off-campus housing or luxury housing near the University of Chicago, uhomes.com will provide the best services and unit resources to satisfy your budgets, commute, pet policy, security, and facilities. For your convenience, we have listed some popular University of Chicago housing : VUE 53 : 15 minutes' walk to campus, located at the University of Chicago Hyde Park , which offers three types of rooms: studio,1B1B, and 2B2B, and facilities such as a lounge, bike storage, business centre, and study room. Solstice on the Park : A 13 minutes walk to UChicago. Solstice on the Park’s premier location in Hyde Park puts lush green space at your front door. It offers comfortable student living with various room options, including 1B1B, 2B2B, and 3B3B. It also provides a business centre, a lounge, and a gym. Shoreland Apartments: 13 minutes by bus 55, an apartment for rent near the University of Chicago Hyde Park, IL. City Hyde Park Apartments: a popular student housing in downtown Chicago Hyde Park. Regents Park Apartments: Regents Park apartments in Hyde Park offer a wealth of public amenities and a wide selection of floor plans, from studios to one-bedroom, two-bedroom, and three-bedroom units, for flexible rental periods. Lake Meadows Apartments: a luxury University of Chicago accommodation ; floor plans at Lake Meado ws include studios, one-, two- and three-bedrooms. 5252 Apartment : 5252 apartment is a UChicago house located in the vibrant heart of Hyde Park, with the most sought-after facilities and incredible views. These beautiful new apartments have been carefully furnished and offer panoramic views of Lake Michigan. Floor plans like Studios 1B and 2B offer students comfortable living space. Cloisters : a University of Chicago housing, offers contemporary 1B1B, 2B2B, and 2B3B apartments. With amenities like a communal lounge, business centre, and gym, Cloisters creates a supportive living experience for UChicago Students. Windermere House : It is a popular apartment near UChicago . It offers four types of room studios, 1B1B, 2B2B, and 2B3B, providing students with a vibrant and inclusive community. With amenities like a lounge, bike storage and gym. There are many University of Chicago off-campus housing options that haven't been listed because of limited space; please view uhome.com. You may find more ideal University of Chicago apartments . Cheap University of Chicago Housing  View our cheap University of Chicago housing from US$600/month . Finding affordable student housing at the University of Chicago doesn't have to mean sacrificing quality of life; uhomes.com offers the perfect balance. Located at Hyde Park, Woodlawn, and Kenwood, our UChicago student housing significantly reduces extra living expenses for international students with competitive pricing, in-room washer-dryers, and a full set of stainless steel appliances. Residents are within walking distance of the UChicago campus, shopping district, retail, and supermarkets, saving considerable commuting time and costs, making it an ideal choice for a high-quality local lifestyle within a budget. Here are some cheap student apartments near the University of Chicago within walking distance to campus. Chatham Park Village-Cooperative, Chicago - from $609/month 7706 South Coles, Chicago - from $645/month 5445 Ingleside Apartments, Chicago - from $650/month 5540 Hyde Park Apartments, Chicago - from $685/month 5748 Blackstone, Chicago - from $699/month South Shore Beach Apartments - from $719/month Lakeside Grant Manor Apartments - from $743/month Jeffery Parkway Apartments - from $825/month The Carolan Apartments - from $825/month 5401 S Cornell, Chicago - from $849/month University of Chicago Neighborhood Nearby  Here, we have compiled 5 University of Chicago neighbourhoods after Hyde Park that are the most popular among UChicago students, arranged from the south (closest to Hyde Park) to the north (farthest away). South Loop : The South Loop is a rapidly growing neighborhood close to many of Chicago's top attractions like Soldier Field, the Field Museum, and Shedd Aquarium. It's popular with students from the University of Chicago, DePaul, Columbia College, and the School of the Art Institute. Pilsen : Pilsen is west of the South Loop and has a large student population drawn by its proximity to the University of Illinois at Chicago and the University of Chicago, as well as its affordable rents. Historically a Mexican-American neighborhood, Pilsen is now a diverse community of artists and students. The Loop : As Chicago's downtown, the Loop is a hub for business, transportation, government, shopping, tourism, and culture. It has become a popular residential area, with mostly condos and studio apartments, though they tend to be smaller and more expensive than other neighborhoods. Near North Side : The Near North Side encompasses Streeterville, River North, Gold Coast, and Old Town. It's a popular area for shopping, nightlife, and attractions like the Magnificent Mile, Navy Pier, and comedy clubs. It has a mix of residential options. Lincoln Park : Lincoln Park includes both the green space of the park and the surrounding residential area. It's home to the free Lincoln Park Zoo and has a lively bar and nightlife scene, especially around DePaul University. Housing ranges from apartments to single-family homes. Transportion Guide for Student Rent UChicago Housing  Besides renting a suitable UChicago house , it is also important for students to learn about public transportation in Chicago . 1. Shuttles: UGo shuttles are free for students. Students should present their UCID to use the shuttles. 2. CTA Buses: A number of Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) buses serve the University of Chicago campus and Hyde Park area. 3. Trains: The Metra Electric District Line runs through Hyde Park and can be accessed at several train stations in Hyde Park. 4. Biking: Divvy is Chicago's bike  program. You can take a bike out from any station and return it to any other station in the city. For non-Divvy riders, the campus offers several bike racks where students can lock their bikes. 5. Parking: Hyde Park has significant unpaid street parking (varies by street). Students and others with an active UChicago ID can park free at the Ellis Avenue parking facility after hours. Students could visit Chicago landmarks and vibrant neighbourhoods on weekends through the Chicago subway system and other public transportation. Student Life at University of Chicago  Student life is colourful whether you choose to live in UChicago off-campus housing or University of Chicago dorms . There are over 400 student organizations covering diverse interests (civic, political, entrepreneurial, sports, music, theatre, comedy, etc.). Year-round programming to cater to the intellectual and personal interests of students A wide array of University-level resources, activities, and opportunities available to undergraduates, which reflects UChicago's commitment to students' intellectual, personal, and professional development Diverse undergraduate community with students from various backgrounds and locations, numerous organizations and resources dedicated to fostering inclusion and a sense of belonging. Diversity is seen as essential for robust intellectual inquiry and discovery. UChicago offers a vibrant, residential, and enriching college experience with ample opportunities for students to engage in various intellectual, extracurricular, and social pursuits. Cost of Living at University of Chicago  In addition to finding a suitable University of Chicago housing, other costs of living in Chicago except rent, vary depending on the course of study, individual spending habits, financial situation, and lifestyle. University of Chicago housing cost: UC hicago dorms: range from $12,084 to $17,793 annually Off-campus housing: about $14,000 annually , there are the average price of different room types. Single r oom: $1,300.31/month Studio: US$2 ,063.45/Month 1B: US$1,863.40/Month 2B: US$1,453.88/Month 3B: US$1,229.47/Month Tuition fees: arou nd $67,446/annual Food: $300-$600/month Books & Course Materials: $1,800 /annual Misc. Personal Expenses: $1,950/annual Transportation ： $105/month Facts about University of Chicago Hyde Park  1. The University of Chicago, Illinois, is located in the historic residential neighbourhood of Hyde Park, just 20 minutes south of downtown Chicago. 2. Hyde Park is also home to more than 60 percent of University of Chicago faculty and their families. Hyde Park is a cultural oasis with tree-lined streets, historic architecture, abundant parks, and iconic cultural institutions. You’ll find a wide variety of restaurants, cafés, one-of-a-kind shops, and independent bookstores. 3. Students actively engage with all that the University of Chicago Hyde Park IL neighborhood offers, including museums, restaurants, the 57th Street Art Fair, historical sights, the Hyde Park Jazz Festival, movies, concerts, plays, and other research and volunteering opportunities. 4. The Smart Museum of Art, located on the university’s campus, houses an impressive collection of contemporary and modern artworks. It serves as a vibrant cultural hub for students and art enthusiasts. Tourist Attractions near UChicago Housing  We listed 10 popular tourist attractions near the University of Chicago; if you feel bored staying at the University of Chicago housing on weekends, grab your best friends and choose one place to have fun. 1. Chicago Theatre 2. Cloud Gate in Millennium Park, AKA The Bean 3. T he Magnificent Mile 4. Navy Pier 5. Willis Tower Skydeck (103rd Fl) 6. The Second City 7. The Art Institute of Chicago 8. The Museum of Contemporary Ar t 9. The Shedd Aquarium 10. Field Museum (Zoology, Botany, to Geology) Please view our blog to explore more best things to do in Chicago this weekend . Top 10 Courses at the University of Chicago  Economics: 1,277 Computer science: 465 Mathematics: 311 Biological Sciences: 266 Political Science: 216 Psychology: 207 Public policy studies: 197 History: 148 Neuroscience: 133 Physics: 127 View More  FAQs on University of Chicago Student Accommodation What is the average UChicago housing cost?  University of Chicago housing cost varies depending on different housing types. University of Chicago on-campus housing and dining at the University of Chicago are estimated at around $19,000–$20,000+ per year . On-campus room-only costs for returning students are typically about $11,000–$14,000 per year , depending on room type (double, single, or apartment-style), with meal plans required separately. Estimated Off-Campus Rent of UChicago Housing (Hyde Park): Studio: $1,300–$2,200/month 1 Bedroom: $1,800–$2,800/month 2 Bedroom: $2,500–$4,200/month 3 Bedroom: $3,500–$5,800/month 4 Bedroom: $4,800–$7,500/month 5 Bedroom: $6,000+/month (rare, usually house-style or large shared units) Off-campus housing in Hyde Park is usually 20–30% cheaper than UChicago dorms , especially when sharing with roommates, though prices vary by apartment type and location. Since living in UChicago off-campus housing with friends is usually more affordable and comfortable, many students book apartments near the University of Chicago at student accommodation platform ; our experts are willing to help you choose the ideal housing near University of Chicago. What are the room types of UChicago accommodations?  There are usually three room types in University of Chicago accommodation: studio and one-bedroom apartments and two- to four-bedroom Apartments. Here is the estimated average rental for different UChicago off-campus housing: Studio for rent near the University of Chicago: US$1,853/month One-bedroom for rent near the University of Chicago: US$2,403/month Two bedrooms for rent near the University of Chicago: US$3,200/month Three bedrooms for rent near the University of Chicago: US$4,500/month Four bedrooms for rent near the University of Chicago: US$5,000+/month If you'd like to immerse yourself in the cultural diversity and make friends from different backgrounds, uhomes.com provides an international house for the University of Chicago; please view our website for more available University of Chicago accommodations. Which neighborhood near University of Chicago is safe to live?  There are several safe neighborhoods nearby University of Chicago, such as Hyde Park, South Loop, Pilsen, The Loop, Near North Side and Lincoln Park. University of Chicago Hyde Park is a diverse and historic neighbourhood on the South Side of Chicago, located about 7 miles from downtown. It is home to the University of Chicago campus. Many University of Chicago students, faculty, and staff live in or near Hyde Park due to its proximity to campus and the presence of numerous cultural, educational, and recreational amenities. To summarize, Hyde Park is safe and beautiful and a perfect place for one of the most excellent institutions of higher learning in America. uhomes.com offers a range of University of Chicago housing options, from high-rises to vintage walk-up buildings, catering to different budgets and preferences. While rent prices may vary depending on location and building amenities, Hyde Park is generally considered a safe and convenient area for University of Chicago affiliates to reside. The University's shuttle service also ensures easy access to campus from various parts of Hyde Park. How do I pay for my University of Chicago housing?  There are three common ways for students to pay for apartments near UChicago rentals. 1. online payment portals 2. property management companies, direct bank transfers 3. mailing a check uhomes.com offers the most convenient and safest way for you to rent housing near the University of Chicago on our platform. Is UChicago graduate housing not easy to find?  As far as we know, there is very little to no graduate housing in UChicago, so it is not easy to rent UChicago graduate student housing . Most people rent their University of Chicago graduate housing with friends or classmates. Here are the search processes for finding UChicago graduate housing . Once you decide how much you can afford and what kinds of housing near University of Chicago you are looking for, the easiest place to start is with online listings, uhomes.com provides apartments near UChicago Hyde Park or other neighbourhoods. Size, location, and the condition or amenities of a building are the most significant factors in the price of an apartment. You may find a wide range of UChicago off-campus housing that fits your budget in different neighbourhoods across the city. Contact us to take a tour of some best UChicago accommodations . Can I rent affordable UChicago off campus housing?  uhomes.com offers lots of affordable UChicago off-campus housing for students, a single room at 5445 Ingleside Apartments, Chicago , which costs $650 a month, and 5540 Hyde Park Apartments, Chicago , which provides furnished studios for $685 a month. Can I view my apartments near UChicago before booking?  Yes, you can view and pick University of Chicago housing online in advance through videos and live streaming posted on uhome.com, or contact our experts, who are willing to satisfy all your needs. Suppose you study in other cities, considering other student accommodations such as student housing in NYC , student housing in Los Angeles or student housing in Boston . In that case, you may also contact us and make an appointment to view more US student housing . Where is the University of Chicago located?  The specific University of Chicago location is Rosenwald Hall 105,1101 E. 58th Street, Chicago, IL, and the UChicago zip code is 60637. We have the best and most affordable apartments near the University of Chicago. Browse our prime University of Chicago housing with lots of space to study, play, and socialize. Are there pet-friendly University of Chicago housing？  Yes, there are 295 pet-friendly University of Chicago housing available on the site, including Cloisters, Chicago, 5550 Dorchester, Academy at Drexel Court, 5452 South Ellis Avenue, 5415 S. Woodlawn Avenue and more. You can click "pet allowed" in service features to find more rooms for rent. How much does the cheapest University of Chicago housing cost?  The cheapest off-campus housing near the University of Chicago is US$609 /month on the platform; it is Chatham Park Village Cooperative at 737 E 83rd Pl #5807, Chicago, IL 60619. Does University of Chicago housing offers in unit washer and dryer?  Yes, there are some University of Chicago housing options that provide in unit washer and dryer, such as 5320-5326.5 S. Drexel Boulevard, Chicago , Cornell (The Greenstone), Chicago , VUE 53, The Carolan Apartments, The Trilogy at Hyde Park, etc. uhomes.com offers 128 apartment buildings with in-unit washer and dryer close to the UChicago; click amenities you wanted in the filters to find more apartments. How to rent furnished and cheap housing near University of Chicago?  There are typically several steps in the rental application process in University of Chicago off-campus housing. Filling Out the Application Form ： applicant’s personal information, social security number (if any), employment or school information, references, etc. For international students who may not have a Social Security Number yet, it is a good idea to have a copy of your passport, as well as your UChicago admission letter, financial aid offer letter, and your I-20 form. Pay the Necessary Fees : an application fee, a security deposit, move-in fee, pet deposit, or other costs. Submit Proof of Income ： Credit and Background Check Co-signers (Guarantors) : If you have no rental history or poor credit, you may need to have someone sign as a guarantor on your lease. Signing the Lease : Once your rental application is approved, the landlord or manager will prepare a lease for you to sign. Where can I rent UChicago graduate housing?  If you have recently been accepted into the Master's program for the upcoming semester. You can find UChicago graduate student housing in three ways. 1. Utilize your friend circle : Ask your friends and colleagues if they know anyone looking for University of Chicago off-campus housing . Searching out people around you might be the quickest method to find a roommate. 2. Post on social media : If you can’t find a suitable roommate through the first way, you might as well expand your search scope by posting on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and so on. 3. Search on the rental website : uhomes.com is helpful for you to look for safe and affordable UChicago accommodations . In addition, we provide roommate-find services for free if you prefer to room with other college students around your age. We provide various University of Chicago housing options that are not too far from campus. Spending too much time commuting day in and day out will make you exhausted. How to find University of Chicago summer housing?  Following these steps should help you find suitable Chicago summer sublets . 1. Determine your housing needs , including what type of housing you need and how long you'll need it. Consider factors like location, cost, amenities, etc. 2. Check the UChicago Housing website; except for official websites, you can explore UChicago off-campus housing rental options on uhomes.com. 3. Look for Chicago summer sublets from students who will be away. Apply or reserve your spot immediately, even months in advance. How can I get my deposit back at the end of my tenancy?  All UChicago residential properties are legally required to protect your deposit in a recognised tenancy deposit scheme. If you care for your Chicago apartments near the University of Chicago, you will not have a problem getting your deposit back. At the end of your tenancy, you'll need to contact your landlord and ask for your deposit. If your home is managed by a letting agency, you'll need to contact them instead. It's best to write or email when you ask for your deposit back—if you do, you'll have a record of when you asked for it. Can you list some universities near the University of Chicago?  The Chicago area is home to over 40 four-year colleges and universities. Except for the University of Chicago, we've compiled a list of popular colleges in Chicago below. University of Illinois Chicago Northwestern University Illinois Institute of Technology Rush University Loyola University Chicago DePaul University East-West University Roosevelt University Columbia College Chicago For students studying in these universities, uhomes.com provides multiple off-campus housing near campus. Whether you are looking for luxury or affordable apartments, we all got covered. How expensive is the University of Chicago for international students?  The University of Chicago, Illinois, is one of the most expensive universities in the US. Its tuition is $67,446 per year, and it is the same for legal residents and international students. There is no differentiation. That does not include room and board and medical insurance. You should estimate an additional $18,000 a year for everything else. There are two ways to help you save money: one is to disclose that you need financial aid, and the other is to rent UChicago off-campus housing. We offer lots of furnished and cheap apartments near campus. View More  Nearby Cities Nearby Universities Student Apartments Chicago Student Apartments Evanston Student Apartments West Lafayette Student Apartments Normal Student Apartments Madison Student Apartments Champaign Student Apartments Urbana Student Apartments Savoy Student Apartments East Lansing Student Apartments Bloomington Student Apartments Ann Arbor Student Apartments Iowa City Student Apartments Ypsilanti Student Apartments Toledo Student Apartments Oxford OH Student Apartments Cincinnati Student Apartments Franklin County Student Apartments Columbus Student Apartments Cleveland OH Student Apartments Ames Show More  Off-Campus Housing near DePaul University - Lincoln Park Student Center Off-Campus Housing near Northwestern College (Illinois)|Northwestern College Off-Campus Housing near Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT) Off-Campus Housing near Kendall College Off-Campus Housing near Columbia College Chicago Off-Campus Housing near Northwestern University Loop campus Off-Campus Housing near University of Chicago Off-Campus Housing near Roosevelt University Off-Campus Housing near Concordia University Chicago Off-Campus Housing near Loyola University Chicago, Lake Shore Campus Off-Campus Housing near John Marshall Law School (Chicago) Off-Campus Housing near East-West University Off-Campus Housing near Taylor Business Institute Off-Campus Housing near City Colleges of Chicago-Malcolm X College Off-Campus Housing near DePaul University, Loop Campus Off-Campus Housing near Rush University Off-Campus Housing near University of Illinois Chicago Chicago Off-Campus Housing near Chicago-Kent College of Law Off-Campus Housing near DePaul University Off-Campus Housing near School of the Art Institute of Chicago Show More  Search by Property Types 1 Bedroom Flats in Chicago Explore stylish 1 bed flat to rent in Chicago! Find out more 2 Bedroom Flats in Chicago Book a viewing of Chicago 2 Bed Flats. Find out more 3+ Bedroom Houses in Chicago Seeking a safe & cosy home to live with your pals? Find out more Apartments for Rent in Chicago, IL Reach your modern apartment rentals in One Click! Find out more Short-Term Accommodation in Chicago, IL Enjoy the flexibility & convenience of a short stay! Find out more   You May Also Like University of Chicago Acceptance Rate & Admission The University of Chicago’s acceptance rate for the Class of 2026 was a record-low 5.4%. The university has become increasingly selective, with the rate dropping from 7.3% for the class of 2024 to 5.4% for 2026. Best Universities in Chicago: Ranking, Strength, Acceptance Rate, Fees This blog will explore the best universities in Chicago, highlighting their strengths, notable programs, and campus environments. Whether seeking a world-class education, diverse student experiences, or a pathway to a successful career, these universities have it all. Best Places to Live in Chicago: Which Suits You? This comprehensive guide analyzes the top 10 Chicago neighborhoods based on safety, rent affordability, and proximity to major universities. Whether you are a student or a young professional, our detailed methodology and local insights will help you find your perfect home in Chicago. Most Dangerous Neighborhoods in Chicago & Safety Tips This blog aims to provide a comprehensive guide to the most dangerous neighborhoods in Chicago, offering insights into the city’s crime statistics, a detailed list of neighborhoods to be cautious in, and practical tips on staying safe while navigating these areas. Median Income in Chicago: Salary & Household Data Median income in Chicago is projected to reach approximately $75,134 in 2026. This figure comes from estimates by the U.S. Census Bureau.    4.9/5 on Trustpilot Excellent Rated  English  中文  English  繁體中文(中國香港)  繁體中文(中國台灣)  Tiếng Việt  ไทย  日本語  한국어  Español  Deutsch  Französisch  Italienisch  Company About Us Careers Personalized Service Blog uhomes+ New Newsroom Partnership Accommodation Providers Become Partner Partner Login Support  uhomesAI New  Help Center  WhatsApp  +44 207 631 5139  Contact Us Download our APP Payment Methods Media Terms · Privacy · Cookies · Info Docs · Sitemap Cookie Settings · Do Not Sell or  My Personal Information © 2026 uhomes.com